>> Steve Kinney: Having Zod
is really great for
confirming the stuff that comes in
through the gates is valid, but
it's a JavaScript instead of
JavaScript functions, right?
And so that has the problem
of being JavaScript, right?
Which I like JavaScript, I think is great.
However, JavaScript objects don't
work super well in go because they're
different languages.
So obviously this is a very common
problem, especially over the years,
because it turns out there's
a lot of back end languages.
There's one in the browser, and sometimes
back ends are in different languages.
So an open API spec is effectively
more of a convention than any
kind of piece of technology, right?
There's nothing like there's no tech
technically, in an open API spec.
It is simply a convention to follow and
you might see them in yaml,
you might see them in JSON.
They are the same thing, effectively,
where you know it is to
some version of this specs.
This is the Yaml1 in the repo.
Actually in all three folders,
there is a openai.json,
which is for our test schema API.
That one, it's written in JSON as well.
I did both so you could see them.
We'll look at the YAML one right now,
because it's just a little
bit easier to read.
That's kind of the selling point of yaml.
Which is you've got some metadata,
and then you've got for instance,
all of the paths that an API
should support, right?
So here, in this case,
we've got /users that has a get method,
a little bit of information about
what that thing is supposed to do,
a little bit of documentation,
if you will, the parameters that it takes.
And the point that is going
to be somewhat useful for
our purposes is whether you know it or
not that is JSON schema, right?
This is the YAML file
you can go see in JSON.
JSON schema, again, just a convention,
just an agreed upon structure for
defining the parameters of either
the arguments or the return value of.
In this case, an API, but
could literally just be functions, right,
in a language-agnostic format
that everyone just agrees to.
There's, again, no technology
behind this other than committees.
And so
here we've got the path both the get okay,
it takes this search query and then for
what do you want to search for?
And then a page number, right?
What are the responses
that it might give you?
Well, if it's a 200 you're probably
getting back an array of users, right?
And then we'll talk about what is a user,
we'll get there.
Again, you have the same thing for
the post.
What is required in the body and
what is optional in the body?
This should be all mapping to
TypeScript stuff in your head, right?
Cuz, again, that's why it's a standard,
it will map to something in most languages
and there are nuances, right, for
languages that have both ints and floats.
That will be meaningful
in those languages.
In JavaScript,
they'll just both be a number, right?
There are little nuances but
you can basically talk about what
are the parameters in a path?
What are the request body?
What are the responses,
the status codes that you could get
effectively a contract Test for
describing how an API is supposed to work.
And this is useful because then
on the server, you can then say,
okay, we're agreeing to this contract.
Great, I can expect the request bodies
to come in to match these things, right?
And the front end team is like,
yeah, yeah, you can right and
then the front end team is like.
But when I make that API request, like
a get request or the response I get back,
you're going to hold up your
end of the contract, right?
Now obviously you schema validate,
whether that's JSON schema or
Zod schemas or whatever.
You schema validate and again trust, but
verify is the name of the game here.
But it is a standard document for creating
some kinda contract so that both sides,
even if they are in completely
different languages.
And can't share the types in
a mono repo or an NPM package,
right, can theoretically do it.
So at temporal,
we have got a open API doc for HTTP API.
It is generated directly from
the go proto buffs, right,
which is a different standard that I've
got some slides on if we want, but like,
it's just a different way of doing this.
And they automatically
generate that document, and
because it's generated out of their code,
right?
I can trust that it mostly works,
and I have the advantage of since we
are an open source project
with a public exposed API.
The chance of a breaking change
is a lot lower because we
agreed not to do that to our customers.
So means the back-end team is
less likely to do it to me.
Bugs happen, right?
Issues happen, but generally speaking,
it's generated from code,
and we have it ready to rock and roll.
So first you have that paths plural, and
literally, we will do this together and
I do this at work is I just generate
a client to do all the fetch calls.
I don't write a single fetch call myself.
I have a client that I just generate from
their contract that where everything
is perfectly typed, and
we will get there you have and
then under components, it's like,
okay, so this one's only got a user.
This is effectively,
some of this should look somewhat familiar
to what we were doing by hand, right?
This is what a user is, right?
Id, this is kind of from
the examples that we saw earlier.
I do generated one, a create user request,
so on and so forth, right?
A slightly more involved
one is in the repo.
This one I just did in JSON
just to show you both,
where it is a description based
on the API that we have been
working with the entire time
of what it should look like.
Now, can you generate
one of these from code?
Yes, if you also had all that
structure in your code, right?
We started with a wild west API,
so it's a little bit trickier and
I'll show you some techniques for
doing it.
But even if you can just Figure
out what it ought to be.
You can use odd schemas to generate this.
You can use JSON schema and then you
can make them both work across the way.
But this is effectively a representation
of everything that my API that we've been
working with does.
We're going to focus a little bit
more on the client side piece, but
we'll look at like, because,
the reasoning is that,
like generating one from
the code is a little bit tedious.
There are lots of tools that you can use,
and
you will see why we will not
be doing it live in a moment.
For instance, if you one
annotated their API with JS Doc,
you can generate one for free, right?
The problem is,
we'd be doing a lot of writing, which for
real production code base,
maybe someone ought to do, right?
Cuz internally, you can make sure that
your API adheres to your own contract.
We'll see how to do that in a second and
then also for the other side, for
a throwaway app, writing this much by hand
for 800 lines is not worth it, right?
But again, if the safety is worth
it to you, it is there you.